# Context

# Goals
For Q3 we have three primary goals: 
1. Improve engagement with the grants program, 
2. Deliver a great contributor experience for incoming devs
3. Lead people towards deeper opportunities building urbit. 
These three goals will, over time, help accelerate the developer engagement pipeline, grow the quality of contributors, and enable the Foundation to make the best possible use of available resources.

# Initiatives
To support these goals there are three main initiatives on which we will focus. These initiatives do not map 1:1 to our goals, but rather contain beneficial overlap both with each other and with the initiatives of the rest of the Urbit Foundation. 
## Mars Invisible College Program
The Mars Invisible College was initially created to outsource both domain expertise and offload operational load from the UF, while bringing the community of contributors together to support newcomers to the grants program in their journey. We have not had particularly extensive participation in the group, so for Q3 we will be working to increase engagement, filter out dead weight, and initiate new members. 
## Content Marketing Campaign
To date, the Grants Program has not had an outward marketing presence and therefore the inner workings–and even the public goings-on–of what is being funded, the status of projects, or who has built what thanks to UF support has gone largely uncelebrated. We will run a light content & product marketing campaign to publicize the grants program and drive new contributors to network. This program will consist of daily tweets (covering grant status updates, app distro announcements, bounty/apprenticeship listings, and more), a monthly ‘dev update’ to live on DUO, and a quarterly highlights blog post. 
## Hackathon Participation
Lastly, we will interface with the DX team at the UF to engage in hackathons, both funding prizes in-situ, as well as providing opportunities for pre-/post-hackathon grant participation. The primary effort of this in Q3 will be the Assembly hackathon, but we will also work to gather learnings from the ADAO and ETHNYC engagements and research existing hackathon programs in the web2 and web3 spaces. This initiative will recruit grant program participants to enter a competition to share their work at during the Hackathon Demo track at Assembly 2022. The specific number of teams eligible to present is still TBD but is likely somewhere between 4-6. Two winners will be selected, one by a UF Judges Panel, and the other by the community of event attendees.

# Metrics
The historical mechanisms for tracking grants program success are the correct high level metrics: getting grants completed, onboarding new contributors, and transitioning grantees into opportunities to work full time on urbit. Unfortunately, the specific way that these metrics were tracked (and the data structures that the grants program utilized to manage work) presented some inherent limitations to the levels of granularity that we will need in order to properly assess progress on a quarterly basis. Accordingly, over Q3 of 2022 and in conjunction with aiming at the same high level goals, we are going to make some slight modifications to the way lower level data is structured and baselines are set. While we do this we will continue to track the older metrics with the notable caveat that they we not initially designed to a quarterly baseline. All that said, the outcomes of the initiatives outline above, and measurement of success against our goals, will be conducted across the following metrics. 
## Improving Current Metrics
- `Completion Rate` - Ratio of (Funded Grant / Completed Grant) - Targeting 40% for a total of 17 of the 41 active grants
- `Active Grant Contributors' - Sum of assignees to grants that have the status of `In Progress` anytime within Q3) - Targeting 53, including 4 net new contributors per month
- `Transition to Full Time` - Manual check of number of people who, during a given quarter take full time roles at urbit companies, get funded by The Combine, or otherwise work full time on urbit without Grant Program Funding 35% of completed project contributors transition to Full Time Urbit (will require Manual check and coordination with urbit companies) within 3 months of grant completion. Also includes people who do not finish a grant because they get hired full time by an Urbit company instead. Targeting 33% for a total of 6 hires of grantees in Q3.

## Set Baselines for the following metrics
These new metrics will enable better mapping to our overall goals and more viable reporting on a monthly and quarterly basis. For those that map fairly closely to previous measurement models, we are also providing targets; other metrics relating to novel UF initiatives and will be primarily tracked to set a baseline for measuring future improvements or optimizations.  
In parallel to the `Completion Rate` measured above, we will also be enacting a modification of the measurement approach: instead of looking solely at overall grant completion, which introduces tricky subjectivity as a contributor gets hired prior to completing a larger grant project or limited insight into how future grants should be structured to improve completion rate or ROI, we will instead make use of our new milestones tracking table. The primary measure will be (Milestones funded for a quarter / Milestones completed within that quarter), and where we will also track milestones delayed and milestones abandoned to give us a view into contributor ambitions that get delayed vs actual grant abandonment.
- Milestone Completion Rate - ratio (Completed Milestone / Funded Milestone) - Targeting 40% to map to current target completion rate. Over time, we expect to find this rate to be higher than the overall grant completion rate, but there is room for error here based on the more subjective standards for marking past grants as complete (i.e. grants with some, but not all milestones finished who then went on to work on more urbit projects have been counted as `Complete` historically). More specifically we should be targeting approximately 100 completed milestones per quarter to align with our budgeted address space for distribution.
Hoon School to Grants Pipeline - Ratio of (grant proposals or applications from cohort completionists / total number of cohort completionists grant participation) - We suspect this should roughly target 40% which for the Q2 2022 HSL cohort would be ~24/61
Closed Won Rate - Ratio of (Proposed Project / Funded Project) - At current contributor and budget levels, we expect this should land at ~60% and will give us some indicator to the seriousness of grant proposals, the quality of proposals, and the engagement level of the Mars Invisable College. This metric is not necessarily one for which we want to set specific targets because both high and low numbers could be good depending on surrounding circumstances (i.e. All hoon school cohort members submit quality proposals that are well received and funded, or we get more submissions that we can responsibly fund so we select the highest quality proposals and applicants), but is still something that we want to understand in the context of the rest of the grants program and therefore should be deliberately tracked.
Top of Funnel - Leads + Open Opportunities (sum of unique contributors across: leads not yet contributors, Apprenticeship--either specific or general--applicants that did not get selected, and Draft Status Grants): Need to more clearly define leads and provide the UF team with instructions on how to capture leads, but roughly should be anyone on the network who even mentions being interested in contributing and they should be captured into the lead note list. This will be particulary important as we begin outreach at hackathons and other conference events.
MIC Engagement - Defined as Members of the MIC who have been involved in grants conversations (either in MIC or proposal groups). If you havent engaged in the last year, your membership will be revoked.
MIC Participation - Defined as members of the MIC who have championed one or more projects in the last year. If you haven’t championed a project in a year, your membership is subject to termination depending on your other engagement with the community.
